OK so welcome to the section 9 challenge.
This challenge puts together just about everything we've learned to solve a problem.
I mean the section on workspace under the challenge project there is also a challenge solution project
which includes my solution which I'll cover in the video right after this one.
Let's talk about the challenge and then I'll give you a demo of the running solution.
This challenge is about using a collection or a list of integers and allowing the user to select a few
options from the menu.
So here's the menu.
PHM S L Q Are the selections.
If the user presses P you print the elements of the list.
If they press a you add a number to the list which you ask them for if they press and you display the
mean of the numbers in the list.
SNL the smallest number of the largest number and of course if they press Q You quit now.
Anything else you should tell them invalid valid choice and so forth.
OK.
Just like we've been doing so let's go over a little bit more of the detail here.
We're only accepting valid choices from the user both uppercase and lowercase selections should be allowed.
And if they enter an illegal choice you should say unknown selection Please try again and then redisplay
that menu.
OK.
If the user enters a upper or lower case P we display all the elements of the list.
Remember this is a list of integers if the list is empty you should just display two square brackets
and then say the list is empty.
If the list is not empty then all the list elements all the integers in that list should be displayed
inside square brackets separated by spaces.
So in this case the list has the integers 1 2 3 4 and 5 and this is how I will display them if the user
enters an upper case or lower case a then prompt them for a number to add to the list in which case
you had it and then you display whatever number they entered added.
OK.
It's OK to have duplicate entries in the list.
And the last couple are pretty straightforward if they press em up or lower case you basically iterate
through that list and calculate the average of ballista the mean of the list and display that if the
list is empty.
Obviously you can't calculate the means you simply display unable to calculate the mean no data for
s.
Again upper or lower case you basically iterate through the list and find the smallest integer in that
list.
And that's what you display back to the user.
So in this case if the list contains two four or five one will display the smallest number is 1.
If the list is empty you should display unable to determine the smallest number because obviously the
list is empty.
L works the same way except you're looking for the largest element in the list.
When they press Q You say goodbye and the program terminates.
So that's the challenge before you begin.
Write out the steps you need to take and decide what order you should do them in.
Think about the loops you know you need loops you know you'll get if statements or switch statements.
Think about what the best way to do this is start small build little pieces test as little pieces and
then add as you go and test as you go.
One big hint.
Use a vector and don't use an array here.
Use a vector should be pretty obvious because we want this to grow dynamically.
Couple more things you could add functionality once you finished this basic challenge to search for
a number in the list and if it's found how many times that are to occur.
Maybe it's not in the list.
The Vector class has a clear method that you can call to clear out the list.
So maybe you want to know have an option for the use with delete everything in the list.
Maybe you want to not allow duplicate entries so if I press to enter the number 5 let me enter it if
I want to enter to Gangle say sorry it's already in the list so come up with your own ideas.
It's really all about learning and practice.
OK so let me give you a sample run of this.
So here's the menu.
As you can see this print and M is mean as is smallest is largest and Q is quick.
Let's do the obvious one first.
This press Q Were out.
It says good bye.
Our program is over.
OK.
So let me run it again and let's print the numbers in the list.
Right now the list is empty so if I press P and again them it could be uppercase or lowercase you get
the two square brackets and the list is empty.
Now I want to add a number of press a Maceo I want to add the number 10 to the list 10 is added.
And let's say I want to add another number so I'll press a again and I want to add negative 10 this
time.
So we've added negative 10 felony to print the numbers again.
Crespi.
And there's my list 10 and negative 10.
I'll add a couple of more.
So let's add a hundred and let's add five hundred and we'll display the list again with a P.
And now we've got 10 negative 10 100 and 500 just like what we thought.
Display the mean of the numbers were press M.
In this case the mean is 150.
Let's add another number let's add three and do the mean again.
Notice it's 120 point six of the means should be a double not an integer.
Finally we'll do them we print the list again.
We've got 10 negative 10 100 503.
The small This should be negative 10 and the largest should be 500.
So let's test that out press.
As for the smallest the smallest number is minus 10 and I'll press l for the largest the largest number
is 500 exactly what we expect.
And of course if the user types in one unknown selection Please try again or if they press Oh if they
press anything that's not one of these letters we tell them unknown selection redisplay the menu and
grab the input from them again.
Prosecutor.
That's it.
That's the challenge.
As I said this can be a tricky little challenge to do because you've got a lot of things going on.
You've got loops and loops within loops and if statements and maybe switch statements and maybe do loops
maybe while loops it's really up to you to decide how to solve it.
Give it a shot.
Don't be discouraged if it takes you more than a few attempts to get it.
That's pretty normal.
See you in the next video we'll go from my solution to it or at least one solution to it.
All right good luck.